From Bacteria to Bach and Back

I borrowed this book from the library at the first sight and couldn't stop reading it the first day.

I was pulled to some tasks the second day and put aside this book. Three days ago a friendly email 
from the local library reminded me that it would be due soon.

The next morning I carefully read through the first 2 chapters as well as the last one, interesting,
 savvy and fun. In the afternoon, I rushed over the left chapters.

The general idea is "Human brain is a work of nature and man-made selection. Comprehension emerges 
out of competence. Consciousness is a user-illusion..."

The author, Daniel C. Dennett, an American philosopher, writer, and cognitive scientist ever declared:

The model of decision making I am proposing has the following feature: when we are faced with an important
 decision, a consideration-generator whose output is to some degree undetermined, produces a series of 
 considerations, some of which may of course be immediately rejected as irrelevant by the agent 
 (consciously or unconsciously). Those considerations that are selected by the agent as having a more than 
 negligible bearing on the decision then figure in a reasoning process, and if the agent is in the main 
 reasonable, those considerations ultimately serve as predictors and explicators of the agent's final decision.

In this From Bacteria to Bach and Back, he is always trying to be objective and asking questions from 
horizon, which I believe you and me have been wondering in the same way for a long long time. He is 
exploring all possible corners in his philosophy field, which is also the inner world of you and me, big 
or small. Reading his meticulous words needs the mixture of patience, curiosity and solitary. At last you
 probably could have a key to open a new door to your Consciousness, I think.

If you want more keys for more doors, check his Darwin's Dangerous Idea, Dennett writes that evolution can
 account for the origin of morality.

Also in Breaking the Spell: Religion as a Natural Phenomenon, Dennett attempts to account for religious 
belief naturalistically, explaining possible evolutionary reasons for the phenomenon of religious adherence. 
He has been doing research into clerics who are secretly atheists and how they rationalize their works. 
He found what he called a "Don't ask, don't tell" conspiracy because believers did not want to hear of loss
 of faith. That made unbelieving preachers feel isolated but they did not want to lose their jobs and sometimes
 their church-supplied lodgings and generally consoled themselves that they were doing good in their pastoral 
 roles by providing comfort and required ritual. The research, with Linda LaScola, was further extended to 
 include other denominations and non-Christian clerics. (from wiki)

An really interesting, rational and earnest research, at least for me.
